Sometimes reading error messages is not enough or you don't even get an error message, like here. I get my servers
here right
and if I click on them, I can delete them
and it seems to work until I click the last one or if I deleted all of them, the only one.
So deleting the last server is not working,
I can click it as often as I want,
it's not going away.
Now if we have a look at our code, at the template
first, we see that on each list item, I call onRemoveServer and I do pass i, the index of the current
iteration to that method.
Now of course we could simply dive into the TypeScript code here and have a look at this
and there we see, well we get the position of this item and then we simply call splice to remove the
item, the element in this array at this position.
So you might say well that looks all right,
sometimes it's just not super easy to debug a message like this because we're not getting an error message
but we get a logical error in our app.
Now debugging is supported by developer tools in a browser though,
so it would be great if we could simply check at runtime
why this is not working. In Chrome,
you can simply go to sources and here, you will find all these sources imported on this page.
So in this case, all our script bundles and there are a couple of bundles as you'll see, the important one for
us is of course the main bundle
and if we have a look at the main bundle, yes that's not super easy to debug, right. Now theoretically
of course, we can have a look at it and there, let's find, this seems to be our template here with container
and row and maybe we can find the line responsible for splicing, here and now maybe we want to debug here
and if you try to place a breakpoint here which you of course can do in your developer tools, you'll
see something changed,
it jumped to the app.component.ts file.
Now remember, TypeScript is not what runs on the browser,
so there the Javascript, these bundles here are used,
how can we now access TypeScript? Because these Javascript files support source maps. Source maps are
a little addition
the CLI kind of adds to our bundles which allow the browser to translate our Javascript code to TypeScript
or to simply map the Javascript code to our TypeScript files. In development-only, these source
maps will be stripped out for production of course.
So this is a great feature because now we can place breakpoints here in our TypeScript code and if I now
click somewhere,
you see it indeed pauses
and now we can check and even see that ID currently is 2
which makes sense because I clicked this item here which has an ID of 2, just to show this again, here
now with this item, now it's ID 1 because again the middle item which is ID 1 in this case because
we started 0 for the first item and then we see that position is undefined right now.
Now we can move on a step, now we see position is 2
and now we can also check servers and in servers, we see position 2 of course is the last server
in the list.
So if we let this continue,
it looks like the middle one was removed but actually, the last one was removed and we can confirm this
by checking this if I click on the last one which was the thing which was not working, we see ID is
1, makes sense, it's the second element of 2 and the ID starts at 0, so ID 1 makes sense
but now position is 2 because we add one to the ID.
So now we try to delete the element at position two in this servers array and clearly we don't have that element
here,
we only have two elements with positions 0 and 1.
So the logical error in our code is that we add 1 to the ID here and that is how we could debug that
with the TypeScript code
here, with that source map, that of course would allow us to now fix this bug.
Now correctly, you might say that's awesome,
that's great but if I have to scan my main bundle to then click somewhere to open the TypeScript file,
that's not really a great tool because if that bundle grows bigger, it gets even harder to find
the right spot.
Therefore you can directly access your TypeScript files, under webpack
here, you should find a couple of subfolders and if you open up the dot folder here and then source, here
in the app folder and so on, you find all your TypeScript files,
so here is where you can directly access your TypeScript files in the same structure as in your project
to easily find the file you want to dive into and you want to debug
with the Chrome developer tools. So that is another great tool at your disposal,
besides reading error messages, using the debugger with source maps, with TypeScript files to either of
course dive into errors for which you have error messages but also into logical errors, like here.